<p>Villagers in remote locations around the world gaining access to electricity through cheap, flexible solar cells mounted on their roofs. Drilling deep into the ground to tap into the inexhaustible thermal energy of the earth&rsquo;s core. Nuclear reactors that use their own nuclear waste as fuel. A new generation of powerful batteries that store the intermittent power generated by the sun, wind and waves.  These are some of the visions outlined in the Equinox Communiqu&eacute;, issued yesterday to sum up a new vision for the world&rsquo;s energy in 2030. It&rsquo;s the product of a week of discussions among some of the most eminent scientists, engineers, entrepreneurs, policy experts, and future leaders from around the world.   The elite group of 36 was meeting at the Equinox Summit, hosted by the Waterloo Global Science Initiative, a partnership between the University of Waterloo and the Perimeter Institute for Theoretical Physics. The communiqu&eacute; is the starting point for a more detailed Equinox Blueprint, to be released in the fall, and a year-long campaign to internationally promote the ideas generated at the summit.  In an interview after the presentation of the communiqu&eacute;, University of Waterloo president Feridun Hamdullahpur emphasized &ldquo;the importance of fundamental university-based research in very close collaboration with industry&rdquo; in making the recommendations a reality.  Hamdullahpur said he saw Waterloo playing a key role in the research and development to come, especially regarding batteries, solar cells, smart grids, sustainable energy, and biomass gasification &mdash; the last being one of his own areas of expertise.  &ldquo;There is no silver bullet; there&rsquo;s no single solution. It will be a combination of many, many solutions,&rdquo; Hamdullahpur said.  Perimeter Institute director Neil Turok said holding the event at the Perimeter Institute may have influenced the outcome. &ldquo;We (physicists) have very clear ideas of objective knowledge, and we don&rsquo;t say things we can&rsquo;t justify. This lent a spirit to the meeting that is quite unusual. People came, they listened to reason, they didn&rsquo;t try to impose their pre-existing views, and so there was a spirit of openness in the discussions.&rdquo;  The communiqu&eacute;&rsquo;s recommendations centre on four key ideas: changing the baseload of the current energy system, smart urbanization, electrified transport, and rural electrification.  Today&rsquo;s global energy consumption is 16.5 terawatts &mdash; that is, 16.5 trillion watts being consumed all the time. Only 2.5 terawatts of that is from renewable sources, said Waterloo professor Jatin Nathwani, who served as scientific advisor to the facilitation team.  By 2050, the world&rsquo;s energy demands are predicted to rise to at least 30 terawatts, &ldquo;most likely higher,&rdquo; said Nathwani, who is executive director of the Waterloo Institute for Sustainable Energy.  &ldquo;If 50 per cent of the global energy demand in 2050 were to be met by non-carbon sources, that is a requirement of 15 terawatts of new, renewable, non-carbon sources of energy &hellip; a six-fold increase from today&rsquo;s renewable energy capacity, actually equivalent to today&rsquo;s total energy consumption. In simple terms, then, all new growth must be met by non-carbon forms of energy.&rdquo;  There&rsquo;s more about the recommendations on a special Equinox Summit web page. The full communiqu&eacute; can be downloaded from the WGSI website.</p>